Image Feature Extraction docs (#28973)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/tasks/image_feature_extraction.md

<!--Copyright 2024 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Image Feature Extraction

[[open-in-colab]]

> Image feature extraction is the task of extracting semantically meaningful features given an image. This has many use cases, including, image similarity and image retrieval. Moreover, every computer vision model can be used for image feature extraction, where one can remove the task-specific head (image classification, object detection etc) and get the features. These features are very useful on a higher level: edge detection, corner detection and so on, as well as containing information about the real world (e.g. how a cat looks like) depending on how deep the model is. Therefore, these outputs can be used to train new classifiers on a specific dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image feature extraction is the task of extracting semantically meaningful features given an image. This has many use cases, including, image similarity and image retrieval. Moreover, every computer vision model can be used for image feature extraction, where one can remove the task-specific head (image classification, object detection etc) and get the features. These features are very useful on a higher level: edge detection, corner detection and so on, as well as containing information about the real world (e.g. what a cat looks like) depending on how deep the model is. Therefore, these outputs can be used to train new classifiers on a specific dataset.
```

> Image feature extraction is the task of extracting semantically meaningful features given an image. This has many use cases, including, image similarity and image retrieval. Moreover, every computer vision model can be used for image feature extraction, where one can remove the task-specific head (image classification, object detection etc) and get the features. These features are very useful on a higher level: edge detection, corner detection and so on, as well as containing information about the real world (e.g. what a cat looks like) depending on how deep the model is. Therefore, these outputs can be used to train new classifiers on a specific dataset.

Reviewer: Nit - I still don't think we should say every CV model can be used for this, because they don't all have a task-specific head that can be removed like this

Author: sorry I forgot to address this in previous round

In this notebook, we will:

- See how to build a simple image similarity system on top of `image-feature-extraction` pipeline,
- Also accomplish the same task with bare model inference.

## Image Similarity using `image-feature-extraction` Pipeline

We have two images of cats sitting on top of fish nets, one of them is generated. 

```python
from PIL import Image
import requests

img_urls = ["https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/cats.png", "https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/cats.jpeg"]
image_real = Image.open(requests.get(img_urls[0], stream=True).raw).convert("RGB")
image_gen = Image.open(requests.get(img_urls[1], stream=True).raw).convert("RGB")
```

> Let's see the pipeline in action. We will initialize the pipeline. If we do not pass any model, it will be automatically initialized with [google/vit-base-patch16-224](google/vit-base-patch16-224). If you'd like to calculate similarity, set `pool` to True.

Reviewer: It would be good to explain a little bit here why you need `pool` to do similarity here, and what is output if `pool=False`

```python
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

DEVICE = torch.device('cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu')
pipe = pipeline(task="image-feature-extraction", model_name="google/vit-base-patch16-384", device=DEVICE, pool=True)
```

We can now infer with `pipe`, by passing in both of the images.

```python
outputs = pipe([image_real, image_gen])
```

> The output is contains embeddings of those two images. To get the similarity, we need to pass them to a similarity function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output contains embeddings of those two images. To get the similarity, we need to pass them to a similarity function. 
```

```python
from torch.nn.functional import cosine_similarity

similarity_score = cosine_similarity(torch.Tensor(outputs[0]),
                                     torch.Tensor(outputs[1]), dim=1)

print(similarity_score)

# tensor([0.6043])
```

## Getting Features and Similarities using `AutoModel`

We can also use `AutoModel` class of transformers to get the features. `AutoModel` loads any transformers model with no task-specific head, and we can use this to get the features.

```python
from transformers import AutoImageProcessor, AutoModel

processor = AutoImageProcessor.from_pretrained("google/vit-base-patch16-224")
model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("google/vit-base-patch16-224").to(DEVICE)
```

> Let's write a simple function for inference. We will pass the inputs to the `processor` first and pass it's outputs to the `model`.

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
Let's write a simple function for inference. We will pass the inputs to the `processor` first and pass its outputs to the `model`.
```

- Also accomplish the same task with bare model inference.

## Image Similarity using `image-feature-extraction` Pipeline

We have two images of cats sitting on top of fish nets, one of them is generated. 

```python
from PIL import Image
import requests

img_urls = ["https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/cats.png", "https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/cats.jpeg"]
image_real = Image.open(requests.get(img_urls[0], stream=True).raw).convert("RGB")
image_gen = Image.open(requests.get(img_urls[1], stream=True).raw).convert("RGB")
```

Let's see the pipeline in action. We will initialize the pipeline. If we do not pass any model, it will be automatically initialized with [google/vit-base-patch16-224](google/vit-base-patch16-224). If you'd like to calculate similarity, set `pool` to True.

```python
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

DEVICE = torch.device('cuda' if torch.cuda.is_available() else 'cpu')
pipe = pipeline(task="image-feature-extraction", model_name="google/vit-base-patch16-384", device=DEVICE, pool=True)
```

> We can now infer with `pipe`, by passing in both of the images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To infer with `pipe` pass both images to it.
```

```python
outputs = pipe([image_real, image_gen])
```

The output contains pooled embeddings of those two images.

```python
# get the length of a single output
print(len(outputs[0][0]))

> # show outputs

Reviewer 2: I don't think this comment is necessary.

Author: I think it's useful since people can see the pipeline returns outputs for both inputs in a list and the inner list is also a list (often times it's numpy array)

print(outputs)

# 768
# [[[-0.03909236937761307, 0.43381670117378235, -0.06913255900144577,
```

> To get the similarity, we need to pass them to a similarity function. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get the similarity score, we need to pass them to a similarity function. 
```

```python
from torch.nn.functional import cosine_similarity

similarity_score = cosine_similarity(torch.Tensor(outputs[0]),
                                     torch.Tensor(outputs[1]), dim=1)

print(similarity_score)

# tensor([0.6043])
```

> If you want to get the last hidden states before pooling, simply avoid passing any value for the `pool` parameter as it is set to `False` by default.

Reviewer 2: Why would I want to get the last hidden states?

Author: Addressed this

```python
pipe = pipeline(task="image-feature-extraction", model_name="google/vit-base-patch16-224", device=DEVICE)
output = pipe(image_real)
```

> Since the outputs are unpooled, we get last hidden states where first dimension is the batch size and the last two are embedding shape.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Since the outputs are unpooled, we get last hidden states where the first dimension is the batch size and the last two are the embedding shape.
```

an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Image Feature Extraction

[[open-in-colab]]

Image feature extraction is the task of extracting semantically meaningful features given an image. This has many use cases, including image similarity and image retrieval. Moreover, most computer vision models can be used for image feature extraction, where one can remove the task-specific head (image classification, object detection etc) and get the features. These features are very useful on a higher level: edge detection, corner detection and so on. They may also contain information about the real world (e.g. what a cat looks like) depending on how deep the model is. Therefore, these outputs can be used to train new classifiers on a specific dataset.

In this guide, you will:

> -  Learn to build a simple image similarity system on top of the `image-feature-extraction` pipeline.

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
- Learn to build a simple image similarity system on top of the `image-feature-extraction` pipeline.
```
